---
title: Firearms and Weapons
order: 1
---

We abide by the [Texas Penal Code 46](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/Docs/PE/htm/PE.46.htm ). Request for firearms and weapons is reviewed by the Security and Safety Division Manager and approved by the Department Director. If approved, you will be notified and a pre-event meeting may be scheduled with the Security and Safety Division’s Health and Safety Unit.

**Here is what the [Texas Penal Code 46](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/Docs/PE/htm/PE.46.htm ) states is a firearm and/or weapon:

**Firearm means:** (a) gun, pistol, rifle, or device designed, made, adapted, or readily convertible to use explosive energy generated by an explosion or burning substance to expel a projectile through a barrel; or (b) an air gun.
                    
**Demo/Simulated Firearm means:** Simulated rifle, shotgun, pistol, or revolver that has been manufactured to resemble actual firearms modified by the manufacturer to be incapable of firing or discharge.
                    
**Dangerous Weapon means:** Gas, liquid, solid, edged weapons, or instrumentality, which, in the manner used, is calculated or likely to produce death or great bodily harm or injury.
                    
**Location-Restricted Knife means:** (a) knife with a blade over five and one-half inches  
- Any organization, public or private, represented.    
- Type and number of firearms, ammunition or weapons to be displayed.    
- Purpose or intent of the possession, show or display.    
- Any additional background requested by the Security and Safety Division.    
- Any supporting material for consideration.                               

### Costume Weapons (Cosplay):

- Events anticipated to attract a large number of costumed attendees may be required to have a dedicated safety inspection area prior to entering the event. Staffing charges may apply in these cases.

- Exhibitors and vendors that sell Cosplay, Demo, or other weapons:
 1. Must follow all federal, state, county, or local laws or ordinances.
 1. Weapons must be sold in a sealed box.
 1. Weapons must be immediately removed from the facility.
 1. It is highly suggested that exhibitors/clients have a plan to store sold weapons until removed from the facility by the purchaser. 

### License to Carry Policy            

**We follow all applicable State and local laws regarding the license to carry handguns in the facilities.**

- Notify your Event Security Coordinator about your decision concerning weapons by filling out the All Weapons-Free or Lawful Carried Weapons Permitted form. It is our policy to allow our clients who lease space to generally control access to the space. This includes any decision to allow or not allow lawfully carried handguns (concealed or openly carried) in the leased space, during the time of the leasehold.
- Some areas are considered “Non-Public” and accessible to authorized persons only. These non-public areas include service halls, service yards, and department business offices. Weapons, including those lawfully carried, are restricted from these areas.
- Illegal weapons are prohibited at all times.
