---
title: Texas Penal Code 46
order: 2
---

**Here is what the [Texas Penal Code 46](https://statutes.capitol.texas.gov/Docs/PE/htm/PE.46.htm) states is a firearm and/or weapon:**

**Firearm means:** (a) gun, pistol, rifle, or device designed, made, adapted, or readily convertible to use explosive energy generated by an explosion or burning substance to expel a projectile through a barrel; or (b) an air gun.

**Demo/Simulated Firearm means:* Simulated rifle, shotgun, pistol, or revolver that has been manufactured to resemble actual firearms modified by the manufacturer to be incapable of firing or discharge.

**Dangerous Weapon means:** Gas, liquid, solid, edged weapons, or instrumentality, which, in the manner used, is calculated or likely to produce death or great bodily harm or injury.

**Location-Restricted Knife means:** (a) knife with a blade over five and one-hal		 	

- Any organization, public or private, represented.	
- Type and number of firearms, ammunition or weapons to be displayed.	
- Purpose or intent of the possession, show or display.	
- Any additional background requested by the Security and Safety Division.	
- Any supporting material for consideration.
					
### C. Costume Weapons (Cosplay):

- Events anticipated to attract a large number of costumed attendees may be required to have a dedicated safety inspection area prior to entering the event. Staffing charges may apply in these cases.
- Exhibitors and vendors that sell Cosplay, Demo, or other weapons:
 - Must follow all federal, state, county, or local laws or ordinances.
 - Weapons must be sold in a sealed box.
 - Weapons must be immediately removed from the facility.
 - It is highly suggested that exhibitors/clients have a plan to store sold weapons until removed from the facility by the purchaser. 

### D. License to Carry Policy

**We follow all applicable State and local laws regarding the license to carry handguns in the facilities.** 